Small businesses, like larger organizations, have sensitive information that needs to be protected. Some examples of this are email threads between employees, customer invoices, banking account numbers, product specifications, and formulas. A direct attack can cost a small business money, time, reputation, and even survival. Employees and contractors who need to access sensitive information must have workflows designed to protect this information. The rest of this document details the basics of cybersecurity for small businesses and the steps to implement a solid, limited-budget cybersecurity program. Implementing a robust cybersecurity program is within reach for small and midsized businesses. Following this checklist will get it running with an acceptable amount of security controls in place. (Bartik et al.2020)

Why Small Businesses Need Cybersecurity One common misconception is that smaller businesses face minimal cybersecurity risks and are therefore not worth targeting. However, a significant percentage of cyberattacks are directed against small businesses. Increasingly, smaller businesses are getting hit not for the information they have, but because their systems house information or act as conduits to larger businesses that are really being targeted. In fact, the number of small businesses reporting cyberattacks has increased over the past three years. The average financial impact of cyberattacks on small businesses is substantial. The average cost in time wasted dealing with those attacks is significant – the equivalent of over five weeks of work. Now is the time for small and midsize businesses to take proactive cybersecurity measures to protect sensitive information. (Tam et al., 2021)
